---
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
title: Trimester 1 Final Project Plan
tags: true
categories: [markdown,Week7,tri1]
---

## Program Purpose and Function
Our program’s function is to help people with different illnesses identify their sickness by entering various symptoms (that we are pulling from a health API). 
The plan for the output is to give the user a simple diagnosis, and possibly methods and actions they should take going forward. 
We plan to further clarify the current confusion between COVID-19 symptoms and other common sickness symptoms. We hope to help those who are financially struggling and do not have access to a qualified doctor with a free algorithm that can serve as a diagnosis with generated advice for the user’s specific discomforts. 

## Data Abstraction
There will most likely be variables involved to make our code more organized and make the search easier. 
We plan to use loops and statements such as if, elif, for, and while loops to control our data extraction through time and other constraints. 

## Managing Complexity
Since we plan on using an API in our project, this means that we will be handling a lot of data, hence organization is required. We plan on doing this with lists and dictionaries to create and format our API in key-value pairs. This will be crucial to the function, organization, and efficiency of our project. 
In addition, by setting up a dictionary of lists, data can be pulled from the dictionary by creating an additional search, add, or delete function since each user who uses our project will need to register with the system we create.

## Procedural Abstraction
We will create a search engine where the user can search for their symptoms and identify what sickness they have. The search engine will be able to narrow down the results of the different illnesses the user may have. To accomplish this task, we plan to make use of either AI sources to train and input data or create or use a general Rapid API database. 

## Algorithm Implementation
We are going to create a function that takes user inputs and compares them to a list of data that we have from the API. We will code the function to respond accordingly based on the user input. How is still to be determined

## Testing
If we use an AI source, then we would have to input thousands of different varying from specifying symptoms, and random ones to train our AI and help it learn. Our other option is that after we create a flask website, and code our API sources program, we could use the input function to input different symptoms and see if the API or AI can decipher our symptoms and tell us the most likely illness that we have. 
