---
toc: true
title: CPT for CollegeBoard
layout: post
description: CPT Outline
permalink: /cptcboutline
categories: [markdown,week29,tri3]
tags: true
---

# Program Purpose and Function
i. Describes the overall purpose of the program
The overall purpose of the program is to help user to determine which dealership they will choose to purchase their "dream car". 

ii. Describes what functionality of the program is demonstrated in the video
The function demonstrated in the video is the user's ability to choose the location of the dealership by inputing the user's prefered distance from their home, user's zip code, and the brand of their dream car. The output of this code should include the location of dealership based on user's inputs. 

iii. Describes the input and output of the program demonstrated in the video
The input of the program includes distance, zipcode, and brand. The output of the program includes the location the dealership.

# Data Abstraction
i. The first program code segment must show how data have been stored in the list.

ii. The second program code segment must show the data in the same list being used, such as creating new data from the existing data or accessing multiple elements in the list, as part of fulfilling the program’s purpose.

iii. Identifies the name of the list being used in this response

iv. Describes what the data contained in the list represent in your program

v. Explains how the selected list manages complexity in your program code by explaining why your program code could not be written, or how it would be written differently, if you did not use the list 


# Managing Complexity
The first program code segment must be a student-developed
procedure that:
□ Defines the procedure’s name and return type (if necessary)
□ Contains and uses one or more parameters that have an effect on the functionality of the procedure
□ Implements an algorithm that includes sequencing, selection, and iteration

ii. The second program code segment must show where your student-developed procedure is being called in your program.
Then, provide a written response that does both of the following:

iii. Describes in general what the identified procedure does and how it contributes to the overall functionality of the program

iv. Explains in detailed steps how the algorithm implemented in the identified procedure works. Your explanation must be detailed
enough for someone else to recreate it.


# Algorithm Implementation and Testing
i. Describes two calls to the procedure identified in written response 3c. Each call must pass a different argument(s) that causes a different segment of code in the algorithm to execute.

First call:

Second call:

ii. Describes what condition(s) is being tested by each call to the procedure

Condition(s) tested by the first call:

Condition(s) tested by the second call:

iii. Identifies the result of each call

Result of the first call:

Result of the second call:
